# Vision Statement

The Fitness Tracker System will be used to track, interact, evaluate, and maintain information pertaining to a user’s general wellness and fitness activities. Similar to applications such as ‘myfitnesspal’, the system will be used predominantly as a method of keeping all fitness related activities stored in an organized fashion. The system will be used as a means of aiding a user to obtain their fitness goals and desires. It will have features to log information such as: The users weight, height, age, gender, log any food intake, log their exercise, among others. The system will use the information that the user has inputted as well as give the user information required to further their fitness level. 

The primary demographic for a user that we are looking at, is a user with any level of experience in fitness that has a smart device and the drive to go out and enjoy the world of fitness and lead a healthy lifestyle; Including but not limited to people who want to lose weight, people who want to calculate their calorie intake and people who want to find exercises that fit their needs. The system will keep their goals and fitness activities organized for them, making it one less worry for the user and more time to focus on their fitness. Users with little to a large amount of experience will equally find this system useful in tracking their fitness activities.

The system will be used for evaluating caloric input and output through means of fitness and food intake. The system, being able to track food and workouts, along with the user’s physical characteristics, will show the user their current caloric and nutritional levels catered towards the user itself to ensure proper physical maintenance for each specific user. For caloric input, the user will be able to easily log what they ate throughout the day, whilst the system updates the users current caloric and nutritional daily summary. The user will also be able to view their past food intake from any specific day and view their nutritional progress and, as a result, will be able to recognize bad eating patterns and foods that they may need to avoid in the future. An overview will be accessible to the user to see their total calorie intake, calories they burned during exercise, daily calorie surplus or loss and diet advice. By having the user log their meals and having the application count the calories for them, the user’s personal weight loss/gain goals will become much more attainable. 

Being able to track and log your workouts easily is a big component of this application. This will give the ability for users to easily record their reps for specific muscle exercises, view previous reps achieved as well as recieve recommended reps based on these previous values. Cardio workouts will be similar, they will have a time and distance recording features, and similarly allow previous times/distances to be seen while getting recommended distance or time goals to achieve for the current workouts. Having easy access to previous workouts and getting recommended goals to achieve will give the user something to strive for and give them more incentive to go through with the workout. 

We want our application to be a vehicle for behavior change in fitness. Many people want to develop their fitness, but they give up a few days into their journey. Hence, the criteria of success for this project will hinge on its aptness to motivate whilst keeping the user accountable on their jaunt to their fitness goals. The project will be judged as successful if over 75% of users report an increased engagement with their fitness lifestyle. 

# Branching Strategy
We used a Github Flow branching strategy. We all cloned the initial project, then created our own branches to work on the particular features we were assigned. The finished portions were then commited and pushed onto GitLab through this branch and merged to main after making a Merge Request on GitLab.

# Iteration 1 Worksheet
https://code.cs.umanitoba.ca/winter-2022-a01/group-12/fitness-tracker/-/blob/main/i1_worksheet.md 
